Created module for RHEL 7 to RHEL 8 upgrade (#1248)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8.

> LEAPP is the supported tool for {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8 upgrades.

Reviewer: Here you say upgrading from RHEL7 to RHEL8, later you write it needs to run on CentOS 7 and upgrades on RHEL are not possible. This will confuse all readers :)

Just to make it clear:
* Foreman and Katello installations running on CentOS 7 can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 (and probably any other EL8-rebuild like Rocky and Alma, even tho I didn't test that explicitly).
* Foreman and Katello installations running on RHEL7 can't be upgraded (right now).
* Satellite installations will be upgradeable from RHEL7 to RHEL8, no CentOS/EL-rebuilds.

.Prerequisites
* {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS 7.

> - Upgrading does not work on {RHEL}. You must have a {RHEL}-compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: I do not understand the use of a dash here. 
We have a strict one sentence per line rule and have always had. Please adhere everywhere and always.

> * Access to a local repository server mirroring all required repositories.

Reviewer: No. The system needs access to the repositories we offer, *OR* a local mirror.

* No outstanding updates.

> * You can upgrade a CentOS7 system before you upgrade {Project}.

Reviewer 2: Please follow conventions when referring to an operating system. This is not how it is written.

Author: Some of the other writers mentioned that they have used CentOS7 when documenting. What is the proper naming convention for an operating system?

Reviewer 2: If you google and find the CentOS 7 documentation or website, you'll find how to write it.

Reviewer 2: Brian, I am sorry. I think that I came across quite short here in retrospect and it wasn't my intention. All I meant is that there are certain ways that all operating systems, projects, third party infrastructure etc can and should be referred to specifically and it's easy enough to find them. Their project or product websites are the authority on how it should be spelled rather than myself or any writer.

.Procedure

> . Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains newer LEAPP packages than those shipped by https://wiki.almalinux.org/elevate/[AlmaLinux/ELevate], and support {Project} upgrades:

Reviewer: this step is not required for satellite

+
----
# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
----

> . Install required packages:

Reviewer: for satellite, the `leapp-data-centos` package is not required

+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository leapp-data-centos
----

> . Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:

Reviewer: please have a look at https://github.com/theforeman/theforeman.org/pull/1977, I've updated this section with the "client" repo, which should be reflected here

> . Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:

Reviewer: this step is not required for satellite

enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-katello]
name=Katello 4.4
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/katello/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/candlepin/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
----

* If you are not using {Project}, you can leave out `leapp-katello`, `leapp-katello-candlepin` and `leapp-pulpcore`.

* If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.

* You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.

. We do not support EL8 installations with EPEL8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----

> # yum remove epel-release

Reviewer: this step is not required for satellite

----
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----

+

The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
+
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----
+

> ** If `preupgrade` aborts with a dependency resolution error such as:

Reviewer: this step shouldn't be required with satellite

+
----
# package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can install
----
or:
+
----

>  # package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can install

Reviewer 2: why is there text in the code block?

Author: It appears in the code block in the document that was written to be converted to Asciidoc.

Reviewer 2: I think that @evgeni meant this as a comment

Author: Thanks!

Reviewer: I meant this as "you could see errors like … or …" and didn't know how to format it better as "this is the error output"

>  # package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can install

Reviewer: a `#` usually indicates a command, but this is just a text block

----

> ** Remove packages that are no longer available from any repository:

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure that an ordered list would be better if these are a sequence of steps.

> ** Remove packages that are no longer available from any repository:

Reviewer: this step is not required with satellite

+
----
# dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd) –
----

> +

Reviewer 2: What is this for?

Author: The order of the procedure was steps 1-12 and I had to add the + to keep the continuing list from restarting back at 1 in the middle of the steps.

** Check the output if it does not contain any local packages.

** Remove `rubygem-thor`:
+
----
# yum remove rubygem-thor
----

. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.
. Run:
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----

+

. Reboot the system.
. After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade.
. Reboot to fix SELinux labels.

> . Reboot into the final {RHEL} 8 system.

Reviewer: these steps happen automaticaly, the user doesn't need to do anything

. After the system reboots, LEAPP finishes the upgrade.

> . You can watch LEAPP finish the upgrade with:

Reviewer: this looks like two steps, but the "watch" part is more of a comment to the "leapp does finish"

+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

[WARNING]
====

> If you installed the system and had to use `--disable-system-checks`, the last step of the upgrade will fail, and you will need to call `foreman-installer --disable-system-checks` manually once the system is booted up.

Reviewer: this should use the `{foreman-installer}` macro

Reviewer 2: Also, we don't use language like `booted up` in official docs. 
IBM Style Guide has specifications for when and if you ever use the word "once". 
We do  not use the future tense in our docs. I've mentioned this several times by now. 
We do not use warnings in our docs unless the action with irreparably damage the deployment or cause harm to human life. This does not seem to be the case here.

Author: Understood @melcorr T

There are other instances in the existing documentation where **NOTE** and **WARNING** have future tense in the text so I wasn't sure if that was the only time it was allowed.

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8_{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8 upgrades.

.Prerequisites
* {Project} {ProjectVersion} running on Enterprise Linux 7.
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.

> * {Project} installations can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 and a {RHEL} rebuild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {Project} installations running on CentOS 7 can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 or a {RHEL} rebuild.
* {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 can be upgraded to {RHEL} 8.
```

.Procedure

> . Do not perform this step on {RHEL} as this is for CentOS. Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains newer LEAPP packages than those shipped by https://wiki.almalinux.org/elevate/[AlmaLinux/ELevate], and support {Project} upgrades:
> +
> ----
> # curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the repositories to obtain LEAPP.
+
On CentOS, configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains newer LEAPP packages than those shipped by https://wiki.almalinux.org/elevate/[AlmaLinux/ELevate], and support {Project} upgrades:
+
----
# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
----
+
On {RHEL}, enable the `rhel-7-server-extras-rpms` repository:
+
----
# subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-extras-rpms
----
```

. Install required packages:
+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository
----

> . Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux, `leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux`). Not required for {RHEL}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux, `leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux). Not required for {RHEL}.
```

+
----
# yum install leapp-data-centos
----

+

> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
> . Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
```

----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman {ProjectVersion}

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{ProjectVersion}/3.2/el8/$basearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{ProjectVersion}/el8/$basearch
```

enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
       file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
----

* If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.

* You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.
For more information, see link:https://docs.theforeman.org/nightly/Managing_Configurations_Puppet/index-katello.html[Configuring Hosts Using Puppet].

. We do not support Enterprise Linux 8 installations with EPEL 8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----
# yum remove epel-release
----

. Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:
+
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----

. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

> . Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`) and manually resolve the other reported problems. The following commands show the most common steps required:
```

For more information, see link:https://docs.theforeman.org/nightly/Managing_Configurations_Puppet/index-katello.html[Configuring Hosts Using Puppet].

. We do not support Enterprise Linux 8 installations with EPEL 8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----
# yum remove epel-release
----

. Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:
+
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----

. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
+
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----

+
The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:
+
----
* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can be installed"

> ----

Author: Fixed

+
If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade (`rubygem(thor)` and `rubygem(railties)` in the example above):
+
----
# yum remove rubygem-thor rubygem-railties
----

> +
> Check the output if it does not contain any local packages.
> +
> Remove `rubygem-thor`:
> +
> ----
> # yum remove rubygem-thor
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.

. Run:
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
. Reboot the system.

. After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final Enterprise Linux 8 system.

> . After the system reboots, LEAPP finishes the upgrade, watch it with:

Reviewer: starting two points with "After the system reboots" sounds odd to me, but I am not sure how one could re-word this better.

Author: @evgeni I made it easy. Just removed "After the system reboots" and it still makes sense.

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8_{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8 upgrades.

.Prerequisites
* {Project} {ProjectVersion} running on Enterprise Linux 7.
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.

> * {Project} installations running on CentOS 7 can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 or a {RHEL} rebuild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {Project} installations running on CentOS 7 can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 or a {RHEL} rebuild.
* {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 can be upgraded to {RHEL} 8.
```

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
endif::[]

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-client]
name=Foreman client 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/client/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
       file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
----

* If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.

> * You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.

Reviewer 3: I'd add a link to the Puppet guide here.
Note that you need 2 links - sat and non-sat, and condition them.

Author: @Lennonka Since this section is specific for Foreman/Katello and not Satellite, I will use the link for non Satellite.

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8_{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8 upgrades.

.Prerequisites

> * {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS Linux 7.

Reviewer 4: Maybe it's best to say "Enterprise Linux 7" again?

If this procedure is used for both Foreman and Satellite, then maybe your can also use an attribute to differentiate between RHEL and Enterprise Linux 7. Alternatively, we can discuss setting `RHEL` to CentOS for Foreman build targets?

> * {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS Linux 7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {Project} {ProjectVersion} running on CentOS Linux 7.
```

We're upgrading the *current* version, not the previous one.

* {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 cannot upgrade to {RHEL} 8.

> You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.

Reviewer: Why was this marked as resolved?

> You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.

Author: Shouldn't have been. It's resolved for real now.

* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.
* {Project} installations can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 and a {RHEL} rebuild.

.Procedure

> [start=1]

Reviewer: is there a way to avoid those `start=X` lines? it's horrible to read and will make us miss updating them if we ever change the procedure

Author: @evgeni I had to insert the `start=x` lines because the steps kept restarting at 1 throughout the document due to code blocks and other sentences interrupting the flow of the procedure.

Reviewer 4: I super rarely use this. IMHO it's not needed here. Please remove all empty lines between list elements and remove all instances of "start=X".

Author: Can we compromise? I will only use `start=x` starting at the 8th step because I have tried playing around with the + sign and attempted dozens of build previews and it will not continue the numbering after the 7th step. The + signs end up in the text when I do a build preview and it doesn't matter where I put them. The numbering starts over at 1 after number 7.

Author: Another step was recommended and added. Now the `start=x` will begin at the 9th step if you guys are cool with it.

Author: Never mind. Vendula helped me fix the issue I was having. I will take out all `start=x` references.

. Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains newer LEAPP packages than those shipped by https://wiki.almalinux.org/elevate/[AlmaLinux/ELevate], and support {Project} upgrades:
+
----
# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
----
[start=2]
. Install required packages:
+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository leapp-data-centos
----

> [start=3]

Reviewer 4: I am still not convinced we really need this. It looks very error-prone in the long run. Usually, when you exclude certain steps for certain built targets, the lists in asciidoc still work as expected.

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman 3.2

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/3.2/el8/$basearch

Reviewer: This document will work for Foreman 3.2 and 3.3, so I think we should use `{ProjectVersion}` here.

> enabled=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

this line is duplicated, accidentally

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1

> gpgcheck=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
```

This line was also lost somehow in all the rebases

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello 4.4

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/katello/el8/$basearch/

Reviewer: This document will work for Katello 4.4 and 4.5, so I think we should use `{KatelloVersion}` here.

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/candlepin/el8/$basearch/

Reviewer: `{KatelloVersion}`

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/

> gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore

Reviewer: we don't have a macro for the pulpcore version (the user usually doesn't have to set it themself).
Katello 4.4 is using 3.16, 4.5 is using 3.17 (well, soon 3.18 I guess) -- should we introduce a macro or have an if/else here directly?

Reviewer: This is still outstanding, I think adding a new macro is the simplest?

Reviewer: ```diff
diff --git guides/common/attributes.adoc guides/common/attributes.adoc
index 65eec3bb..f2413a79 100644
--- guides/common/attributes.adoc
+++ guides/common/attributes.adoc
@@ -6,6 +6,7 @@
 :ProjectVersion: nightly
 :ProjectVersionPrevious: 3.3
 :KatelloVersion: nightly
+:PulpcoreVersion: 3.18
 :TargetVersion: {ProjectVersion}
 :TargetVersionMaintainUpgrade: {ProjectVersion}
 // The above attribute should point to the GA version number (x.y) for all releases including Beta
diff --git guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc
index 1940d7d2..45988e87 100644
--- guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc
+++ guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc
@@ -61,8 +61,8 @@ module_hotfixes=1
 
 [leapp-pulpcore]
 name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
-baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
-gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
+baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el8/$basearch/
+gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
 enabled=1
 gpgcheck=1
```

something like this should do (we then need to adjust the attribute differently in the branches, but that's fine, that's what attributes are for)

enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
endif::[]

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins 3.2

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/3.2/el8/$basearch

Reviewer: `{ProjectVersion}`

enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-client]
name=Foreman client 3.2

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/client/3.2/el8/$basearch

Reviewer: `{ProjectVersion}`

enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
       file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
----

* If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.

* You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.

> For more information, see link:https://docs.theforeman.org/nightly/Managing_Configurations_Puppet/index-katello.html[Configuring Hosts Using Puppet].

Reviewer: I don't see how this link is relevant to the upgrade?

[start=4]
. We do not support Enterprise Linux 8 installations with EPEL 8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----
# yum remove epel-release
----
[start=5]
. Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:
+
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----
[start=6]
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

[start=7]
. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
+
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----

The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:

* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can be installed"

If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade:

> +

Reviewer: these `+` render weirdly for me:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/94284/172556400-982b5ee6-4686-4b00-9b75-95144796cbc3.png)

Author: Same. I will delete the +.

> If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade:
> +
> ----
> # dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd)
> ----
> 
> Check the output if it does not contain any local packages.
> 
> Remove `rubygem-thor`:
> +
> ----
> # yum remove rubygem-thor
> ----

Reviewer: After a bit of thinking, the `dnf remove $(dnf repoquery …)` step is too dangerous. Let's make 

```suggestion
If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade (`rubygem(thor)` and `rubygem(railties)` in the example above):
+
----
# yum remove rubygem-thor rubygem-railties
----
```

[start=8]
. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.

[start=9]
. Run:
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----

[start=10]
. Reboot the system.

> 
> [start=11]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

You don't need any empty lines between two list elements.

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8{context}"]

> = Upgrading {Project} from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8

Reviewer: For Foreman, this renders as "Upgrading Foreman from Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 to Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8", which is exactly the combination we do not support today.

Can we make it render "Upgrading Satellite from Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 to Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8", but for the others it'd just be "Enterprise Linux" without the "Red Hat", as that would include CentOS and friends.

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8 upgrades.

.Prerequisites

> * {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS Linux 7.

Reviewer: This won't be true for Satellite, which runs on RHEL 7 only.

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
- {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 cannot upgrade to {RHEL} 8. You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.
endif::[]
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.
* {Project} installations can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 and a {RHEL} rebuild.
ifdef::satellite[]
* {Project} installations upgrade from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8, not from CentOS Linux 7 and {RHEL} rebuilds.
endif::[]

.Procedure
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
. Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains newer LEAPP packages than those shipped by https://wiki.almalinux.org/elevate/[AlmaLinux/ELevate], and support {Project} upgrades:

+
----
# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
----
. Install required packages:
+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository leapp-data-centos
----

. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
----

> # [leapp-foreman]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[leapp-foreman]
```

name=Foreman 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-client]
name=Foreman client 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/client/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
       file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

> [leapp-katello]

Reviewer: can we use `ifdef::katello` here inside the code block? so we hide the katello repos in the foreman docs?

allows to drop the silly "If you are not using " comment below

Reviewer: I used the following, and it worked:

```patch
diff --git guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc
index ab89ff26..541e4aec 100644
--- guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc
+++ guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-el7-to-el8.adoc
@@ -33,7 +33,7 @@ ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
 . Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
 +
 ----
-# [leapp-foreman]
+[leapp-foreman]
 name=Foreman 3.2
 baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/3.2/el8/$basearch
 enabled=1
@@ -64,6 +64,7 @@ gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
 enabled=1
 gpgcheck=1
 
+ifdef::katello[]
 [leapp-katello]
 name=Katello 4.4
 baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/katello/el8/$basearch/
@@ -87,11 +88,10 @@ gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
 enabled=1
 gpgcheck=1
 module_hotfixes=1
+endif::[]
 ----
 endif::[]
 
-* If you are not using {Project}, you can leave out `leapp-katello`, `leapp-katello-candlepin` and `leapp-pulpcore`.
-
 * If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.
 
 * You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.
```

name=Katello 4.4
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/katello/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/candlepin/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
----

> endif::[]

Reviewer: why does this endif here? the points below still apply to katello/foreman only

* If you are not using {Project}, you can leave out `leapp-katello`, `leapp-katello-candlepin` and `leapp-pulpcore`.

* If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.

* You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
. We do not support {RHEL} 8 installations with EPEL 8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----
# yum remove epel-release
----
endif::[]

> . Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:

Reviewer: this should also be inside `ifdef::katello,foreman-el`

+
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----

+

The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
+
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----
+

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]

> ** If `preupgrade` aborts with a dependency resolution error such as:

Reviewer: this whole step should look like this (step wise, not text wise):

`preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:

* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers providers can be installed"

if this happens, you need to clean up packages that can't be automatically upgraded, please try:
*  `dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd)`
    *  Check the output if it does not contain any local packages.
* remove `rubygem-thor`

+
----
# package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0,
----

> but none of the providers can install or:

Reviewer: the errors we want to highlight are  "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers providers can be installed" and "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers providers can be installed"

+
----
# package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0
----
but none of the providers can install:
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]

> . Remove packages that are no longer available from any repository:

Reviewer: this needs to be a sub-item of the "dependency resolution error" step

+
----

> # dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd) –

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd)
```

----
endif::[]

+

> . Check the output if it does not contain any local packages.

Reviewer: this needs to be a sub-item of the "dependency resolution error" step

> [id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8{context}"]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8_{context}"]
```

ifdef::satellite[]
= Upgrading {Project} from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8
endif::[]
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
= Upgrading {Project} from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8
endif::[]

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8 upgrades.

.Prerequisites
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
* {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS Linux 7.

> - {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 cannot upgrade to {RHEL} 8. You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 cannot upgrade to {RHEL} 8.
You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.
```

endif::[]

* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
* {Project} installations can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 and a {RHEL} rebuild.
endif::[]

.Procedure
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
. Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains newer LEAPP packages than those shipped by https://wiki.almalinux.org/elevate/[AlmaLinux/ELevate], and support {Project} upgrades:

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

+
----
# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-7/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-7.repo
----
. Install required packages:
+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository leapp-data-centos
----

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1

> gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release

Reviewer 4: This sounds off to me. Is is meant to be the same GPG as below?

Reviewer 3: @bangelic Can you verify this with a SME?

Reviewer: I can verify that this is completely wrong and should be `gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman`

Author: @evgeni That's the verification needed haha. Thank you!

gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-client]
name=Foreman client 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/client/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
       file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
----
endif::[]

* If you are using Puppet 6 instead of Puppet 7, replace the `7` with a `6` in the `leapp-puppet7` entry.

* You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
. We do not support Enterprise Linux 8 installations with EPEL 8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----
# yum remove epel-release
----

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

. Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:
+
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```

The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

> 
> [start=7]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

If you apply my suggestion in line 123, then defining the start should not be necessary.

----
. Install required packages:
+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository leapp-data-centos
----

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello 4.4
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/katello/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
endif::[]

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/candlepin/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
----
endif::[]

+

> ----

Reviewer: this should be in one codeblock with the other repos in the lines above

Author: @evgeni What specifically should be in one code block? The + sign?

Reviewer: All entries for the repositories should go into one

----
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----

The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

[start=7]
. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
+
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----
+
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
** The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:
+

* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can be installed"

If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade:
----
# dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd)
----

[start=8]
. Check the output if it does not contain any local packages.
+
. Remove `rubygem-thor`:
+
----
# yum remove rubygem-thor

> ----

Reviewer: this is not an own step, it still belongs to "The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as"

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8{context}"]
ifdef::satellite[]
= Upgrading {Project} from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8
endif::[]
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
= Upgrading {Project} from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8
endif::[]

Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8 upgrades.

.Prerequisites
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
* {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS Linux 7.
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
- {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 cannot upgrade to {RHEL} 8. You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.

> endif::[]

Reviewer: This is only relevant for Foreman/Katello.
Satellite only runs on RHEL and RHEL users have the right LEAPP builds.

* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
* {Project} installations can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 and a {RHEL} rebuild.
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
* {Project} installations upgrade from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8, not from CentOS Linux 7 and {RHEL} rebuilds.

> endif::[]

Reviewer: Satellite is not supported on non-RHEL, so this can go away completely.

endif::[]
----
endif::[]

+
----
[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-foreman-client]
name=Foreman client 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/client/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
       file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/candlepin/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

> module_hotfixes=1

Reviewer: these two should also go into the `ifdef::katello` section above.

[id="Upgrading-Project-from-EL7-to-EL8_{context}"]
ifdef::satellite[]
= Upgrading {Project} from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8
endif::[]

> ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]

Reviewer 3: @maximiliankolb Would it be better to use `ifndef:satellite[]` instead?

Author: @Lennonka I did a build preview with the `ifndef::satellite[]`and got this
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/91690569/172230172-be055f6d-e1e4-445a-acce-7b059d3d4e8a.png)
Looks like 2.5 is what would be meant for Satellite but after seeing that there is a ticket for **Upgrading Satellite from RHEL 7 to RHEL 8 with LEAPP** with accompanying documentation, can we make it so that none of this content including anything with `ifdef::{}`gets built into Satellite documentation? It just needs to be for Foreman/Katello.

Reviewer 4: Yes, please apply Lena's suggestion. Something like:

```
if satellite:
  heading 1
if not satellite
  heading 2
```
Neither build targets should display empty chapters or redundant headings.

= Upgrading {Project} from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8 upgrades.
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} installation from Enterprise Linux 7 to Enterprise Linux 8.
LEAPP is the supported tool for {RHEL} 7 to {RHEL} 8 upgrades.
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
.Prerequisites
* {Project} {ProjectVersionPrevious} running on CentOS Linux 7.
- {Project} installations running on {RHEL} 7 cannot upgrade to {RHEL} 8.
You must have a {RHEL} compatible LEAPP build to upgrade.
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.
* {Project} installations can be upgraded to CentOS Stream 8 and a {RHEL} rebuild.
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
.Prerequisites
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
* No outstanding updates.

.Procedure
[start=1]
. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.
[start=2]
. Run:

> ----

Reviewer 3: Insert a line with `+` between the list item and the code.

Reviewer 3: Also all other occurences.

----
# yum remove epel-release
----
[start=5]
. Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----
[start=6]
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

[start=7]
. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
** The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:

* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can be installed"

If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade:
----
# dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd)

> ----

Reviewer 3: ```
+
The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:

* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can be installed"

+
If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade:
+
----
# dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --extras --exclude '*katello*' --exclude '*pulp*' --exclude '*localhost*' --exclude "*$HOSTNAME*" --exclude libmodulemd)
----
```

----
[start=2]
. Install required packages:
+
----
# yum install leapp leapp-repository leapp-data-centos
----

[start=3]
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman 3.2
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/3.2/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello 4.4
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/katello/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
endif::[]

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/4.4/candlepin/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/3.16/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

> module_hotfixes=1

Reviewer: the `ifdef::katello[]` needs to end here.

* You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
[start=4]
. We do not support Enterprise Linux 8 installations with EPEL 8 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:
+
----
# yum remove epel-release
----
[start=5]
. Remove `centos-release-scl` and `centos-release-scl-rh` repositories:
+
----
# yum remove centos-release-scl centos-release-scl-rh
----
[start=6]
. Let LEAPP analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
The first run is expected to fail but report issues.
Continue to the next step for remediation.

[start=7]
. Fix issues found by LEAPP (check `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` for details):
+
----
# rmmod pata_acpi
# echo PermitRootLogin yes | tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# leapp answer --section remove_pam_pkcs11_module_check.confirm=True
----
ifdef::katello,foreman-el[]
The `preupgrade` might fail with a dependency resolution error such as:

* "package rubygem-fx-0.5.0-2.el8.noarch requires rubygem(railties) >= 4.0.0, but none of the providers can be installed"
* "package rubygem-railties-6.0.4.7-1.el8.noarch requires rubygem(thor) < 2.0, but none of the providers can be installed"

> If this happens, do the following to clean up packages that cannot automatically upgrade:

Reviewer 3: Add a line with a `+` before this so that it is inside the list item.
